Default Final Project
NOVA50101 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
for Industrial AI
Deadline: Sunday, May 10, 2026, 11:59 PM
1 Introduction
In the final project, you will explore an interesting machine learning problem
using the machine learning and deep learning algorithms learned in class along
withKaggledatasets. Each team should consist of 3–4 members, and if the
team has fewer than 3 members, approval from the professor is required. You can
choose the dataset freely fromKaggledatasets, but you should carefully check
whether it is appropriate for your project and this course. The complexity of
the chosen dataset will determine the difficulty of the project. If you are unsure
how to start, please ask the TA for guidance.
Once you form a team, send the team leader’s name and members’ names to
the TA, with professor approval (for 2-member) if it exists. If the team has
fewer than 3 members, or if no email is sent, teams will be assigned randomly.
(e.g., for not approved 2-member team, an attempt will be made to add one
or two random members, but in some cases random reassignment may occur.)
The deadline to email the TA for team assignment isMay 3. Team numbers
will be assigned by the TA and announced on Blackboard onMay 4. Please
refer to it.
•Taesoo Kim:taesoo0630@unist.ac.kr
•Wooyeol Jeong:jungwy0106@unist.ac.kr
Project Proposal and Topic Selection.Only the team leader should submit
the proposal. The final team compositions will be announced later on Black-
board. The first task of the final project is to select a topic. Most students will
undertake one of three types of projects:
•Application Project.This is the most common type. You will select
an application area of interest and explore how learning algorithms can
be best applied to solve a problem within it.
•Algorithmic Project.You will pick a problem or a family of problems
and develop a new learning algorithm or a new variant of an existing
algorithm to solve it.
1

•Theoretical Project.You will prove interesting and non-trivial proper-
ties of a new or existing learning algorithm. (This is often quite difficult,
so purely theoretical projects are rare.)
Additionally, some projects may combine elements of application, algorithmic,
and theoretical work. Many of the best class projects come from students choos-
ing an application area they are passionate about or a subfield of machine learn-
ing they want to explore further. So, please choose something that you can be
excited about, and feel free to propose ambitious ideas that interest you. If you
have any questions about your choice, you are always welcome to consult with
the TAs. If the dataset you choose from Kaggle requires significant preprocess-
ing, or if you need to collect it yourself, please keep in mind that this is only
part of the expected project work but can often take a significant amount of
time. We still expect a solid discussion of methodology and results, so please
pace your project appropriately.
Notes on Specific Project Types.Since this course covers many concepts
beyond deep learning, if you decide to do a deep learning project, you must also
incorporate other topics from the class. For example, you could set up logis-
tic regression and SVM baselines or perform data analysis using unsupervised
learning methods covered in the course. Training deep learning models can be
very time-consuming, so ensure you have access to the necessary computing
resources. You can use environments like Google Colab for simple GPU access.
Pre-processed Datasets.While we don’t want you to spend too much time
collecting raw data, the process of examining and visualizing data, trying dif-
ferent types of pre-processing, and performing error analysis is a crucial part of
machine learning. Therefore, we encourage you to perform data exploration and
analysis to familiarize yourself with the problem, even with a prepared dataset.
Reproducing Results.Reproducing a paper’s results can be a great learning
experience, especially if there are results to compare against. However, instead
of simply reproducing the work, you should try to apply the technique to a
different application or perform an analysis of how each component of the model
contributes to the final performance. In other words, while your project does
not need to be entirely new, it should not be a simple replication of prior work.
2 Evaluation
The final project will be evaluated based on the following 3 main criteria:
1.Technical soundness (70%).This includes the proposed method, initial
experimental results, technical validity, originality, insight from results,
and appropriateness of project scale. In addition, clarity and effectiveness
in presenting the project context, methods, and results will be assessed.
2.Limitation & Future Work (25%).This covers the design of future
experiments and extensions of the algorithm. Based on the results of your
project, each team should discuss its limitations and future directions.
2

3.Activities (5%).Teams should submit an appendix showing both the
original and revised activity plans, along with the contributions of each
member.
The originality of your project will be evaluated by comparing it with the most
upvoted codes on your dataset. Achieving better performance is desirable but
not required, and you may also further develop the related codes with your own
ideas.
3 Proposal
The final project proposal should be a maximum of two pages and include the
following:
1. Team number, members, and project title
2. Dataset information you will use for project and baselines using your cho-
sen dataset
3. Brief descriptions of what the project is and how you plan to approach it
4. Roles of team members
The dataset information should include the name, theKaggleURL, and the
dataset size and type. For baselines, submit the URLs of the top 3 public codes
that achieved the best performance on the chosen dataset. If no public code is
available for the dataset, you do not need to submit baselines’ URLs.
The final project proposal is due onMay 10and should be submitted on
Blackboard. Feedback will be given. If you plan to use a deep learning algorithm
not covered in class, please inform the TA or the professor in advance.
3